Job Title: Two PhD Student Researchers in Natural Language Processing

Institution: Technical University of Munich (TUM)

Location: Heilbronn, Germany

Salary: TVL E-13

Contract: 100%, three years

Preferred Start Date: July 1st, 2026


Responsibilities:

Conduct research in the area of Natural Language Processing (NLP)

Develop and apply new NLP techniques to solve real-world problems

Publish high-quality research papers in top-tier journals and conferences

Supervise Bachelors and Masters students

Assist teaching Bachelors and Masters courses in Machine Learning and
in Natural Language Processing


Qualifications:

Masters in NLP, Computer Science or a related field

Projects in NLP or other areas of machine learning

Excellent programming skills in Python and other relevant programming
languages

Strong communication and presentation skills in English (German is not
necessary, but would be a plus; other languages are also of strong
interest, please be sure to list all languages in your materials!)


Benefits:

Competitive salary and benefits package

Opportunity to work with leading researchers in the field of NLP

Access to state-of-the-art research facilities

Opportunity to publish your research in top-tier journals and conferences


About the School:

The School of Computation, Information and Technology at the Technical
University of Munich (TUM) is one of the leading research institutions
in Natural Language Processing and other areas of Machine Learning.
The MCML (Munich Center for Machine Learning) is a leading German
research hub which advances cutting-edge machine learning research and
its applications across science and industry.

The Fraser NLP lab at TUM is seeking two highly motivated and talented
phd-student-researchers to join our team. We are located in Heilbronn
at the new multi-university campus (the Bildungscampus, where the ETH
Zurich center will also be located in the near future). Heilbronn is
in a beautiful wine region on the Neckar river, near Stuttgart.

The research interests of the lab include all areas of NLP, with a
particular focus on multilingual language models and machine
translation. These positions will be supported by MCML and/or Fraser's
ERC Advanced Grant EPICAL (Evaluating and Programming Intelligent
Chatbots for Any Language).

To Apply:

We are using the MCML call for PhD students for 2026, please follow
their instructions and select Prof Fraser as your preferred advisor.

https://mcml.ai/opportunities/for-phd-applicants/

Deadline:

14 November 2025 23:59 CET (but apply ideally earlier)

--
Prof. Dr. Alexander Fraser
Chair for Data Analytics & Statistics
Technical University of Munich
School of Computation, Information and Technology
Heilbronn Campus

Web: http://alexfraser.github.io
