Job Title: Postdoctoral Researcher in Natural Language Processing

Institution: Technical University of Munich (TUM)

Location: Heilbronn, Germany

Salary: TVL E-13 (possible option: E-14)

Contract: 100%, two years, renewal is possible

Start Date: September 1st, 2024


Responsibilities:

Conduct independent research in the area of Natural Language
Processing (NLP)

Develop and apply new NLP techniques to solve real-world problems

Publish high-quality research papers in top-tier journals and conferences

Supervise PhD students

Teach Bachelors and Masters courses in Machine Learning and/or Natural
Language Processing


Qualifications:

PhD in NLP or a related field

Strong publication record in top-tier NLP conferences and journals

Expertise in one or more NLP techniques, such as machine translation,
natural language understanding, or natural language generation

Excellent programming skills in Python and other relevant programming
languages

Strong communication and presentation skills in English (German is not
necessary, but would be a plus; other languages are also of strong
interest)

Not required, but a big plus: teaching experience, supervising experience


Benefits:

Competitive salary and benefits package

Opportunity to work with leading researchers in the field of NLP

Access to state-of-the-art research facilities

Opportunity to publish your research in top-tier journals and conferences

Opportunity to teach and mentor students


About the School:

The School of Computation, Information and Technology at the Technical
University of Munich (TUM) is one of the leading research institutions
in the fields of Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning.

The new Fraser NLP lab at TUM is seeking a highly motivated and
talented postdoctoral researcher to join our team. We are located at
the new multi-university campus (the Bildungscampus, where the ETH
Zurich center will also be located in the future) in Heilbronn, near
Stuttgart.

The research interests of the lab include all areas of NLP, with a
particular focus on multilingual language models and machine
translation.

The postdoc position will involve work on low-resource languages in
both machine translation and multilingual language models.


To Apply:

Please submit a brief application letter, your CV, a research
statement, contact information for two references, and a list of
publications in a single PDF named postdoc_lastname_firstname.pdf (e.g.,
postdoc_fraser_alexander.pdf).

Please send the PDF (or any questions) to Dr. Lukas Edman at:

lukas@cis.lmu.de


Deadline:

Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis. We encourage you to apply early.

--
Prof. Dr. Alexander Fraser
Chair for Data Analytics & Statistics
Technical University of Munich
School of Computation, Information and Technology
Heilbronn Campus

Web: http://alexfraser.github.io
