Job Title: PhD Student Researcher in Natural Language Processing

Institution: Technical University of Munich (TUM)

Location: Heilbronn, Germany

Salary: TVL E-13

Contract: 100%, three years

Start Date: September 1st, 2024


Responsibilities:

Conduct research in the area of Natural Language Processing (NLP)

Develop and apply new NLP techniques to solve real-world problems

Publish high-quality research papers in top-tier journals and conferences

Supervise Bachelors and Masters students

Assist teaching Bachelors and Masters courses in Machine Learning
and/or Natural Language Processing


Qualifications:

Masters in NLP, Computer Science or a related field

Projects in NLP or machine learning

Excellent programming skills in Python and other relevant programming
languages

Strong communication and presentation skills in English (German is not
necessary, but would be a plus; other languages are also of strong
interest)


Benefits:

Competitive salary and benefits package

Opportunity to work with leading researchers in the field of NLP

Access to state-of-the-art research facilities

Opportunity to publish your research in top-tier journals and conferences


About the School:

The School of Computation, Information and Technology at the Technical
University of Munich (TUM) is one of the leading research institutions
in the fields of Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning.

The new Fraser NLP lab at TUM is seeking a highly motivated and
talented phd student / researcher to join our team. We are located at
the new multi-university campus (the Bildungscampus, where the ETH
Zurich center will also be located in the future) in Heilbronn, near
Stuttgart.

The research interests of the lab include all areas of NLP, with a
particular focus on multilingual language models and machine
translation.

For the PhD student position, two possible research foci are possible:
machine translation of metaphors and machine translation of
low-resource languages.


To Apply:

Please submit a brief application letter, your CV, a research
statement, contact information for two references, and a list of
publications in a single PDF named phd_lastname_firstname.pdf (e.g.,
phd_fraser_alexander.pdf).

Please send the PDF (or any questions) to Wen Lai at:

lavine@cis.lmu.de


Deadline:

Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis. We encourage you to apply early.

--
Prof. Dr. Alexander Fraser
Chair for Data Analytics & Statistics
Technical University of Munich
School of Computation, Information and Technology
Heilbronn Campus

Web: http://alexfraser.github.io
